The Joe Rogan experience. Before we go any further, we should give you credit.
You're the reason why all this started. You are the original pod father, the,
the legitimate one. Like if there's a lot of people claiming that. Yeah.
You're the guy who made the very first podcast.
You even came up with the name of it.
Right? No, I didn't come up with the name who came,
who came up with the name of it? Well, let me go back to, to the big,
because actually the technology of podcasting was invented in 2000.
So before anyone was podcasting before there was an iPod, interestingly. Hmm.
Um, I was living in Amsterdam at the time. And, um,
I was working with Dave Weiner who had, who really invented blogging.
And he had created this RSS syndication format and he had
software where you could blog and then an aggregator kind of like, you know,
Google reader at the time. And you could, you know, read blogs.
And it was kind of like a two-way communication thing. It was interesting.
And a lot of people were starting to use it. And in Amsterdam,
they had cable modems rolled out everywhere and cable modems was sold at the
time as always on internet. It wasn't fast. It was, was just on.
You didn't have to dial in, which was, oh my God, this is great. You know,
this was a huge improvement.
<affirmative> you't have to kick someone off the phone line, all of that. Yeah.
Um, so the, um, sorry, the, um, the,
the experience of multimedia was.
Like you wanted to hear a song or play a video. It was like click weight,
weight, weight, download weight, you know,
it would probably download and then open up a, some kind of player.
And then it was not an experience. There was nothing,
nothing there that made sense. So, and I always wanted to broadcast on the unit.
That's always been my thing from the moment I saw it. Um,
so I came up with this concept of the last yard. So what,
what if you had a little thing running on your computer in the background that
would know if there's something you wanted, let's just forget the,
how it knows part. Um,
it would download it and it would tell you that there was something new when it
already had it on its local hard drive.
So you remove the whole weight experience, cuz you don't know,
you don't know that this computer's been downloading something you've want it.
It just tells you, oh, it's here. Which is, you know,
it's not abnormal in media. You know, the six o'clock news,
most of it's produced before the actual broadcast. So, um,
I took this idea to Dave and I said,
we need to come up with something that can download a media file that I program
somehow,
like this is gonna show up and then it downloads it and only tells me
when it's there and I can click on it. It plays immediately. And it,
it took some convincing. He didn't exactly understand what I was saying.
He probably thought a MTV guy, get the outta here.
In fact that's exactly what he thought <laugh>. And uh, uh,
and then I actually demonstrated to him what I wanted to do in his software.
And he said, okay, I'm gonna do this,
but only on the condition you never, ever, ever use my software again,
because that was horrible. What you just did.
And so we created the enclosure element in RSS.
And so for two years we were doing back and forth, you know,
like movie files and stuff and oh, click and it would open up.
And the experience was good until I saw my first iPod friend of mine
said, oh, look at this. I'm like, oh, this is the,
the white one with the big click, click click, the big wheel on it.
That was a good one. Right? They got hot, you know, after a while, like big,
hard drive. And I looked at it and went, this is not a, a,
a digital Walkman. This is a radio receiver. Cause I had one, I had a Sony am,
radio Trent receiver, which is, you know, little solid state thing. I'm like,
this is a radio. This, this can receive radio programming.
And so I said about again with my fantastic programming sales skills, uh,
to make a, a little application and you, the iPod at the time,
you still had to sync it to iTunes.
That's how you got music onto it back in the day. Um,
and so you could put a,
an MP3 file into a blog post basically, but it was a special attachment really.
And so this program would just be looking all the time. Is it something new?
Is something new? Oh, there's something new, download it, then click trip it.
So that it's synchronized to the iPod.
And it worked now not being a programmer. Um,
actually Kevin Marks, the guy was working at apple,
sent me a version of the script that actually worked. That was helpful.
And I said about creating a radio show,
which we didn't have the name podcast yet. Um,
and I wanted to be able to talk to developers,
software developers who could create receivers. So, you know, we had, um,
ipoter, ipoter X, uh, ipoder lemon, all the, all these different applications,
which kind of did the same thing. And because I was talking to developers,
I called it the daily source code.
So I did every day and source code is kind of what the developers work in.
And I was really talking to them like, okay, well, the guys over in New Zealand,
they, you know,
they've created this version of the app and it's really working well.
And we discovered all kinds of crazy. Like you subscribe to a feed.
Um, uh, because when no one had thought it through, we were trying to download,
you know, everything you had in that feed all at once.
So I was trying to download 50 episodes and we still had kind of always on
internet. So everything would crunch and die.
And this just kept building and building.
And other people started doing these and we called them saliliqui and little
bundles of joy and all kinds of really dumb names. And the, uh,
Danny gregir guy who was just listening. He said, oh, this, this,
this is a podcast. And the name stuck, ah,
now Ben Hammersley from the guardian years earlier
had actually used the term podcast, um, somewhere in an article,
which lo was no podcasting at the time, but he envisioned that and,
and called it podcast. So I a while. So he's the guy.
So he's the guy who named it. He used the term, but I would say Danny,
Gregard really named what we were doing at the time. So, so,
and that's when I didn't name myself, the pod father,
where people started calling me that, um, and it just grew from there.
And that went really fast before I knew what the BBC was calling and the
interviews here and there I'm like, holy, something's blowing up here. Yeah.
And it wasn't until, uh, the,
a big moment was I got a call from Steve jobs and he says, well,
actually it was Eddie Q you know, who's big man on campus there. Now he says,
can you meet with Steve? I'm like, lemme me check my calendar. <laugh>. Yeah.
So it was in, uh, where's the D three conference like San Diego, I think, um,
went there and I met with him for an hour and it was wow. And I had,
I' met a lot of interesting busy dude. My,
my best meeting to date had been Quincy Jones where I got drunk with him for an
hour on the live radio show. Oh yeah. That was fantastic. Wow. Um,
and so here's Steve jobs in the flash. Now,
the first thing I notice is he's got a weird list that I' not really heard
before. Really? Yeah. It's like, well, okay.
So he hides it when he do as those maybe, maybe when he is projecting. Yeah.
But he was much more personable and it's just the two of us, but first he's,
he's mad, he's off and he's yelling about, they up wifi. And,
and I learned later <laugh> that his, uh,
his plan always for the iPhone was to not be a cell phone,
but to use wifi networks around the world and whoa. Yeah.
And because, you know, Cisco, whoever had changed the,
the way wifi works and the way the authentication works,
that it really wouldn't be that seamless, but that was his, his vision. And,
you know, so I actually, I thought to myself, dude,
you should probably calm down. This is gonna make you sick. Um,
and then he was talking about, oh no, Eddie Q says, uh, yeah, you know,
the R AA called. And, uh, they got a problem with the, with how we're able to,
um, you know, record sounds on the Mac, you know,
breaking any kind of encryption. And I said, ah,
that's actually kind of important because in order to record stuff,
we're using like audio hijack pro and all these,
all these different kinds of tools. And I said, mom, I hope,
hope they don't do that because it's kind of important for production.
And Steve went, it. Tell 'em to themselves. This is tools our guys need.
I'm like, oh, okay. <laugh> and then he said, Adam,
I'd like to put podcasting and iTunes. Are you okay with that? I'd like,
are you kidding me? Yes. I'll give you my director.
I built a directorory of podcast. I'll give you that to start it off.
Absolutely. And then, uh, uh, it was kind of funny.
So then maybe what, what year was this? 2004, something like that.
I think, yeah. 2004, 2005 timeframe. And then, uh, Jamie,
maybe you can find it if you want. It's a pretty funny video.
So he announces this on stage playing my eye podcast where I just
rail on the Mac. <laugh> it's if you can take a look it's, it's pretty funny.
It's like, it's the one video that, that really legitimizes me, uh,
in the world of podcasting. Thank you, Steve. I really appreciate it. Oh yeah.
You got, you gotta check this out. This is hilarious stuff for.
Well, I, you could, you could try to sell podcasts,
but the whole phenomenon is so great. It's free. Okay.
And I think what we're gonna see is an advertising supported model emerge just
like free radio. Here's another Adam Curry is, uh,
one of the guys that invented podcasting and, uh,
he has a podcast called the daily source. Let me go ahead and subscribe to that.
And, uh, we can go listen to his latest one, you know, just click on it.
Watchs your daily source.
Code show number one.
An 80 something remarkable is happening here.
Radio is springing free of the regulated gatekeepers. Who've managed.
What you can hear since radio was invented,
it's jumping into the hands of anyone at all with something or nothing to say.
With $16 million worth of airplane, strapped my
and the next generation radio content in my ears. We don't need no stinking.
I like to think I' flying into the future. You podcasting.
It's Adam Curry. That's right. It's show number 180 and it's Friday everybody.
Thank God. I've actually had to restart the show.
Three times. My Mac has been acting up like a and I dunno, what's going on.
I think it's, uh, something to do with, uh, the file system.
Okay. <laugh>.
He knew exactly what he was doing, bro. I'm telling you,
he knew he knew exactly. Oh, he had to I' he a clip that he didn't know.
I love Kara Swisher. <laugh> with her mouth, just like what's happening.
That's hilarious. And then, um, he, he sent me an email later and he said,
I'm gonna introduce you to, um, uh, some people in venture capital, uh,
Kleer Perkin, Sequoia capital, which I kind of took as the thank you. Um,
and I went on to raise, you know,
a lot of money from those companies to build my, uh, podcast network. What,
what was the first, like, what year was your first podcast?
The first one that you released? Well, so that was 2003, I guess, 2003. Wow.
So did what was going on before you, was there anything,
was there any other well, people have been putting, uh, well, we had real, uh,
video and real audio. If you remember, that was kind of like the low, low grade,
uh, streaming off. And, um, but this really made, um,
it did two things. I mean it solved the bandwidth problem for downloading.
That was the first and now that's no longer an issue of course, but it, it, um,
put the subscription model into place mm-hmm <affirmative> and because, uh,
neither I or Dave wineer have ever patented any of this. It's completely free.
And, and so no one owns it. And that was, that was the mission.
I'm very proud of that. That's beautiful because you know, otherwise,
if someone like, you know, Spotify is now trying to buy podcasting, uh,
by buying up all these networks and they'll make it exclusive. And granted,
they're trying to switch from a music company to an audio company,
but ultimately look at all the applications that are out there that are really
good. People love 'em, you know, the apple, uh, podcast app. I use overcast.
I like that a lot. There's, you know,
tons of different ones and it's all because there's an open standard that no one
can control and Silicon valley loves controlling. In fact,
apple loves controlling.
This is one of the few things apple has done that isn't a walled garden,
locked into apple stuff. It's.
Interesting cuz they're not even monetizing it. No.
Um, and you know, they, they,
they have many different ways they could do stuff or they could help. But, um,
I don't know why I D why they're not, um.
I think it's an oversight.
I think they thought for the longest time that it was just this thing that
people did, that was no big deal. And then it's become so enormous,
but they still have this Mo this model that they're operating under that it's
just, they're just aggregating, could.
Be. I mean, and what was interesting is when they started off,
they immediately started to highlight, uh, NPR per programming,
which I'm not I'm, I'm, I'm grateful for I'm, uh,
w GB H in Boston, uh, did a lot with, uh, putting their first programs,
uh, making those available as podcast. Uh, but kind of the, um,
the beauty of the,
the amateurism of podcasting got down a little bit and it was all BBC NPR,
radio, PBS radio. Yeah.
Radiolab. How you doing?
Yeah. It's a little too much for me. The Radiolab.
I love Radiolab, but I, I know what you're saying. It's very produced.
It's very like, people answer questions for the guest instead,
like you they'll cut in. So what he said was this, and you're like,
why just let him say it right. Well,